---
title: Running a Cylc suite on PBS Torque with Docker
time: '11:32:28'
author: kinow
tags:
    - cylc
    - python
    - pbs
    - hpc
    - docker
draft: true
---

A few days ago I saw [a post](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!topic/cylc/dP2I1Gxqi20) at the
Cylc Google Group, about file permissions for files generated by Cylc. The post was related to
content created by Cylc, but in an environment with PBS.

For context, Cylc is an Open Source meta-scheduler, written in Python, that allows you to
define cycle points with dependencies. These cycle points can be simple incremental integer
numbers, or ISO8601 periods or points (e.g. run every 5 minutes, from 10 days ago until the
next year). Cylc takes care to create an execution schedule for you, and delegate that to a
system that runs your workflow. I work full time on this amazing Open Source tool!

Such system could be the local computer in background, batch systems such as `at`, or PBS.
PBS was created for NASA, to manage executing jobs taking into consideration cluster resources,
and also using queues, priorities, and other features useful for HPC programming. Later PBS
was acquired by Altair, an Open Source version OpenPBS was created, and later abandoned. And
there is another fork called PBS Torque. I first encountered PBS at the S&atilde;o Paulo
University, in Brazil, where they had a [PBS Torque cluster](http://www.usp.br/hpc/puma.php).

## Reproducing the issue

Even though I have access to an environment with Cylc and with PBS, I decided to give it a try
and see how hard it would be to reproduce it with Docker. One thing that I like about this
approach is the possibility to share the work with others online. I believe it improves
communication, agility, and can be useful for posterity.

I had some experience with PBS Torque on Docker, because of some
[old work](https://github.com/biouno/pbs-plugin/wiki) for another Open Source project called
BioUno. So I started testing the image I used before,
[agaveapi/torque](https://hub.docker.com/r/agaveapi/torque/).

You can get PBS Torque up and running with one line if you have Docker and a good Internet
connection - Docker is in the same category as NPM, Maven, etc (though I find the way Maven
manages common dependencies [saner](https://dev.to/leoat12/the-nodemodules-problem-29dc)).

{% geshi 'shell' %}
$ docker run -d -h docker.example.com -p 10022:22 --privileged --name torque agaveapi/torque
{% endgeshi %}

And from here you can submit a job after having access to the `testuser` user in the container.

{% geshi 'shell' %}

{% endgeshi %}